Task 1A: Research Paper Review
Due date: 21st March 2025 23:59
Mark Allocated: 10% of your final mark. 
Recommended Word-Count Range: 1500 words.
Introduction

The aim of this task is to demonstrate your ability to find useful resources regarding current research in an area of professional interest to you, as well as your ability to convey information in a written form about those resources and structure a short report along with an Ethics review including referencing. This task also requires you to demonstrate your understanding of research design and methods, and how they have been applied in an area of professional interest to you. Your skills in critiquing and writing about previous work will also be assessed.

The learning outcomes covered by this task include:

    Research the literature and compare viewpoints and arguments, and identify gaps in knowledge-generating innovation concepts on topics in the student's chosen specialisation
    Describe the practices used in real-world research including legal, commercial and ethical frameworks and apply an evidence-based approach to technology innovation on topics in the student's chosen specialisation

The Task

Part A - Research the literature and compare viewpoints and arguments, and identify gaps in knowledge-generating innovation concepts on topics/project in your chosen specialisation (major)

For this task you will need to investigate current research trends in an area of interest to your project. This could be a broad or narrow area; the area will need to be defined. Try to identify themes or ideas that you come across, for example, are there particular topics that are popular, or is there a key problem that has many different possible solutions? Your report needs to be structured so that someone not familiar with your area of interest can follow it.

For the method review part, you are required to identify and explain the research method(s) that have been applied in the area you are investigating. You will need to reference existing studies that applied such methods, but you will also need to reference at least one textbook that explains how the methods should be designed and executed in practice.

Lastly, you will need to scope your review: do not just include every single idea you come across; develop a proper structure and some questions for your review, and then aim to answer those using acceptable scholarly resources. Please try and avoid using web links and papers that are not peer-reviewed.

This task MUST be completed individually. Try and keep within the word range. Appendices will not be marked. References are not included in the word count.

Part B - Describe the practices used in real-world research including legal, commercial and ethical frameworks and apply an evidence-based approach to technology innovation on topics/project in your chosen specialisation (major)

In this assessment, you are required to:

    Read the six core ‘ACS Code of Ethics' and its associated requirements
    Read the ‘ACS Code of Professional Conduct Case Studies’
    Search for a real-life case scenario that aligns with your project where there was a dilemma of ethical value in the ICT industry or profession.
    Provide the following information about the incident of interest:
        Description of the incident (aligns with your project)
        Must also include references to the sources of information
        What was the ethical issue?
        What ICT profession or activity was involved in the incident/project?
        What ACS code of Ethics and its associated requirements can be applied to a situation similar to your project (major) in this semester? Make reference to the ACS Code of Ethics document provided.

Report Template

1. PART A

1.1 Introduction

1.2 Literature Review

1.3 Research Methodology

2. PART B

2.1 Case Scenario

2.2 Ethical Dilemma

2.3 ICT Involvement

2.4 Application of the ACS Code of Ethics (in your project/problem)

2.5 Conclusion

References

 
Formatting and Referencing Style

The report should follow these guidelines:

    Table of contents should be included.
    Any standard paper template or structure can be used, such as the IEEE conference paper template (see Attachments below for IEEE template). Be aware that templates will also be assessed on how well you have followed professional recommendations and rules of writing.
    Any standard referencing style can be followed, including IEEE format, Swinburne Harvard or APA styles.
    Your student name and number must be clearly noted on the front page of the report. A word count should be included at the end of the report (before references).

Submission

The report should be submitted through the ASSIGNMENT link on Canvas. Note that Canvas and Turnitin may sometimes have outages beyond our control, so it is wise not to leave submissions to the last minute – you can overwrite previous submissions.

Content from assessed tasks in other units (even your own tasks) cannot be reused. However, you can reference papers and sources you included in previous tasks.
Extensions and Late Submission

Students are referred to the Unit Outline for more details.
Academic Honesty

The work submitted is to be the work of the individual only, and references must be made to the work of others. Students are referred to the Unit Outline for more details.